# Dice Game and value iteration

This project uses value iteration to find the optimal solution to a dice game. The game involves rolling 3 dice to get a score, denoted by their value, then having the chance to reroll as many of the dice as many times as you like. But, with each reroll round, 1 is deducted from the final score. In addition, when the same number shows on 2 or more dice, their value is flipped (1s become 6s, 2s become 5s, 3s become 4s and vice versa).

I used a value iteration algorithm using the pseudocode from Russel and Norvig, 2021. To start with, all state values are initialised to 0. The Q-value function finds the estimated utility for a given state and action, calculated as the immediate reward plus the discounted utility of the outcome state. By updating the state values on each iteration they eventually converge to the true values. I set delta (the convergence rate) to 0.01, meaning that it stops iterating once the difference between V at k and k+1 is less than 0.01. I came to this value through testing as I found that this was the highest value which would maintain the best average score for this algorithm, and would be more time efficient than lower values. For comparison purposes I coded another algorithm which calculates the expected score for each action in a given state, and chooses the action which gives the highest. It was useful to compare to this algorithm and see that the value iteration is more effective as it makes decisions based on all possible future states and actions, rather than just the next state and action. Please see the expected values algorithm in `expected_values.py`.

I started off using a discount value of 1, as in this game, the rewards from actions far in the future are just as important to the final score as the next action. In addition, due to the penalty on each move, a good agent will try to get to the end of the game in relatively few moves, so there should not be an issue with infinite utility.

Russell, Stuart, and Peter Norvig. Artificial Intelligence: a Modern Approach, 4th Edition, Pearson Education, Limited, 2021.